feb 8th saturday, overy minute every hour.

How to schedule the job configuration of periodically trigger and poll SCM trigger (recreate new item 
(job) go for triggers tab check box build periodically or whole SCM one click on check box scheduling comand box will be open up.
there we need to schedule as per requirement.
 EG:to schedule a job at rvery minute, every hour, on saturday safe below that
* * 8 2 6 where 1st *nears every hour, where num '8' is day of the month,2 is month.
num'6' is day of the week. then click on save wait for a schedule. check for the jobs,
whether running as per the schedule or not.


Build after other projects are built:- 
create more than one job(s) then in triggers option selrct build after other projects are built once check box that option need to pass. 
project to watch name. then click on save and check.
EG:- job1, job2,job3 for job3 put the up stream job as job2. below the one we build the job1.
once job1 completed automatically downstream projects has to be built. 
for job2 once select the build after other project other projects are build trigger even if the build fails.
then save, below that for job1 do some mistake wantedly and check for the all jobs.


What is the purpose of API? Task
what is BDD and what is TDD? Task

Build scripts:-
what is this?
why we need this? and EG 
Pipeline project:- 
we are going for the pipeline project inorder to secure the CI-CD pipeline code by storing in any of the respositories (git- hub, big buck, git lab).
sample helloworld pipeline script creation click on new item select pipeline.
go for pipeline in configuration where we can define or write the pipeline script.
we can write script in script tab or else we can take it from SCM.
in the script tab click on drop down option to try sample pipeline.

script:-

pipeline {
    agent any

    stages {
        stage('Hello') {
            steps {
                echo 'Hello World'
            }
        }
    }
}

click on save.
make sure that stage view plugin should be installed, so that we can see stages.

Rebuild vs replay:-
when we use re-build we are not changing anything but where as replay gives us provision to changes or edit the code.
'replay' we can also use it as one of the trouble shooting mechanism.
if we do not know how to write pipeline script code we can take the advantage of snippet generator.
in pipeline syntax option. ( pipeline syntax option) will only visible when you create pipeline job (or) project 
 this snippet generator will help you learn the pipeline  code script which we can be used to define various steps.
 pick a step you are interested in from the list.
 configure it click generate piprline and you will see a pipeline script statement that would call the steps with that configuration.
 you may copy and paste the whole statement into your script or pick-up just the options you carry about.
 EG:- to print msg in sample step of snippet generator we can search for the echo.
 there is a step echo print it in msg block. 
 then click on generate pipeline script which will give us script to print ms by default pipeline execution will work on serial mode only.
 (which means one by one). if the previous stages pass then only it will go for next or for there stages.
 
